Hello hello hello twelve thirty four p.m. recording time Thursday March 7th
2024 actually got to date right how's that for a good start I can't tell you
how many videos I start off with 2023 or or make the same mistake for the
previous years we have returning guest today and friend her work is right in a
sweet spot a unique area that no one else is covering in particular April of the
year 2020 and specifically New York City the previous interview we had was
episode 731 overall 246.1 this is episode 246.2 hard to believe I've
almost done a hundred other recordings since you've been with us Jessica
watched the previous episode by the way for the audience if you if you want to
get the the backstory and an introduction to her to to her and you
can still find her woodhouse76.com welcome back thank you Mark good to be
back good to talk with you again absolutely you have continued to be
prolific and busy and there's like there's a lot of other great researchers out
there that cover very important topics as we were just reviewing medical
interventions and so on and this is good it's good that all of those bases are
covered but there's one area that is again super important if we are to put
out the hypothesis we are a speculate that there was that there's some risk
perhaps to the medical interventions wouldn't we want to review the underlying
conditions the underlying situation that led to the encouragement to to have
uptake of these interventions and you and I are covering different but
complementary fields one of course is the mass casualty event as you described
it in New York City mine is the the increases of deaths amongst the
younger population younger middle-aged population often due to opioids
synthetic opioids in the United States of America and addiction in general these
two do have some overlap and I think that will become clear throughout this
interview but to start tell us about the last couple of months what has advanced
what have some of your changes in the assessment have been in your own words
take it away sure I mean we'll get to some of that as I show some some data and
some different things that I've been working on but yeah really in the past
couple months since we've spoken I've continued to look at the biggest mass
casualty event in New York City if not US history especially when it comes to
something that is not directly associated with war or a force of nature like an
earthquake or tidal wave or something like that an additional 27,000 extra
people are reported to have died in New York City the mortality equivalent of 10
September 11th events when we're talking about the World Trade Center
disaster and we still have no proof no real proof that this event occurred we
don't know where all the bodies went necessarily we don't have a complete
list of names of the deceased we don't have the ability to obtain death
certificates because that is not in accordance with New York state law so I
can't just say hey give me all your death certificates make a request under
under FOIA law they they say no to that so I just continue to look at
different angles different data I get requests and records back all the time
I'm not going to be showing this today but this weekend hopefully I'll be
publishing an article that includes the deaths and that trajectory of deaths
that received the FEMA federal funeral allowance that was passed that
Congress passed I think in March 2021 that allowed people whose loved ones have
who died of COVID or COVID on the death certificate to get up to $9,000
reimbursement in the federal disaster funds through through FEMA so I got
some data back related related to that but today I thought we would look at some
of the home death and ambulance data some of this I've been working on with
colleagues one colleague in particular Thomas Verdine who's in in Panda it's
complicated data it's perplexing data and it really flies in the face of not
only government narratives about what happened in New York City but also
popular narratives and popular beliefs including beliefs that I held myself and
had to abandon and alter as I looked at and reexamined more data and more
contemporaneous reports from the time period so yeah and I'm not going to hold
back on some things that I see and think at this point I think there's been a
shocking dearth of speculation I think speculation and putting ideas out there
is important I don't think that there should be this emphasis on you can only
say things if they are absolutely a hundred percent true no you know we need
to speculate we need to think about about possibilities sometimes there's
some wild ideas that that we have and that end up you know being the truth or
some version of the truth so yeah I'm not gonna hold back from that today is as
you'll allow me and it should be interesting to look at this data who is
presenting and what is the most convincing data or the most convincing
person on the narrative is true there were 27,000 more people dying per month
in New York City and it absolutely was just because there was a new novel
respiratory virus that represented the borders of the five boroughs you're
asking me who out there is actually talking about this well well first I
guess that would mean someone's talking about it but nobody is nobody
isn't in fact I mean there's a I see and I'm biased of course but I see a
proactive resistance on the part of US especially voices and that
influencers or people in the medical freedom community I mean it's it's very
few people who are questioning this an exception would be Leslie Mnuchin she
somebody who I was on her show a podcast last week of the week before
he's the president and founder of health health freedom defense fund my
experiences you know they're recent but with hers that she kind of sees the
the challenges right in the discrepancies in the data and that it
doesn't add up it doesn't make sense and then of course you know some colleagues
within Panda not everybody but some some colleagues my colleague Jonathan
Engler another colleague Martin Neil Nick Hudson I mean these are people who
you know we don't have it all figured out but they are at least willing to to
talk about it and and discuss it and say yeah we need some answers here but
among Americans I I'm not sure you Jonathan Kui is as well right but it's
not very many many people and the active resistance to talking about it or
avoidance is weird to me it really is but it could just be that people have
moved on or people have accepted whatever version of the story they
believe is true and they don't want to move or they think other things are more
important right now or they're just annoyed by me that could be it's just
not interesting like perhaps it's it's not a lack of a better word salacious
like you know it really intriguing pulling people in like oh is this just
sound boring I mean what do you think what why won't people who are actively
questioning the big narrative overall just not interested in this I think
two reasons one I think they think a few things have already explained it
right and that the conspiracy there was conspiracy but it's already been
addressed that it's because of almost nursing home policy which by the way
feeds the spread narrative and I I challenge just the I for me spread is
the OG myth okay so that the nurse the nursing home policy excuse doesn't make
sense with the data I've pointed that out a million times but so so that's
that's number one number two they think well it's it's ventilators right
ventilators and remdesivir like while that that doesn't really work with the
day they either right so that people maybe have told themselves certain
things and then I think the other aspect of it is it's very hard to get people's
attention these days unless you have something really huge right you might
remember when Naomi Wolf had myself and Jonathan Engler on her show and she
was basically like well what's the story here and it's like look the story the
story is that this might not have happened there's no proof of this event
the government has made a claim about the number of people who died each day on
the ground in New York City that that doesn't work for a lot of different
reasons and we we have the names of people who died in the World Trade
Center disaster we don't have anything like that we don't have a memorial
listing all the people's names we don't have any kind of fundraiser that
Manhattan elites are staging to sponsor a documentary on this event there's
just there's silence have you heard a memorial in the works like maybe they're
raising the money to etch a wall somewhere with the you know like a Vietnam
memorial that would be fantastic what's funny I need to tweak this now that you
brought that up a friend of mine was at an event of some kind at University of
Chicago earlier this week and one of the speakers think it was sort of a
diversity equity and inclusion event it wasn't wasn't around COVID but one of
the speakers this pretty articulate African-American man his name escapes
me right now but he funny enough brought up the fact that a COVID-19
memorial was needed and that and I was like oh well okay all right I really
like this this idea especially if it gets us names not only in New York City
but in Chicago is as well in Detroit and some of these other places where
spring 2020 saw tons of sudden death really sudden death is not a COVID
shopping sudden death is spring 2020 the first three weeks post 15 days to slow
the spread why aren't we honoring these victims why aren't we disclosing what
exactly happened here right so you've heard of the sudden death that was said
to have happened in China earlier in the pandemic late that was at the November
December and there would be videos of you know some poor soul just walking home
carrying his groceries and he just falls into the puddle that is if he as if he
was shot and I've ran this by other people who saying look I'm not a
virologist but that just seems a little strange you know to just just die as if
you've been shot you know but from a from a virus in the response I got was
well you know those Chinese people work right up until the death
place okay I guess that's the best they can do no no it's staged I mean that
that's the word that I've been using for at least the past eight nine months or
so this was staged Nahamish man was staged I'm in princess was staged I ran
you know having well leaders killed by coronavirus do you remember that yeah
staged and looking back at these things my hope is to be a part of and I'm not
able to do it by myself right people have different areas of interest and focus
but by looking back at these events and and highlighting certain videos I do
this a lot on Twitter me like does does this make sense what this person was
saying I get that we were all confused at the time oh yeah because it was a
shock and I would say it was a shock and awe campaign planned and implemented but
you know we now we have the benefit of hindsight hindsight literally is 2020
and and figuratively when we go back and talk about what actually happened
what for example Ron Johnson was saying at the time what ran Paul was saying at
the time can we not give US senators who are sitting in office at that time a
pass right and that that's uncomfortable for people it's uncomfortable for people
because I think it it shocks a lot of people's narratives it doesn't matter
if they were Covidian and all in or they're on the early treatment front or any
of these other sectors if you will in the in the Covid discussion I think going
back and talking about early 2020 is uncomfortable but they were early Covid
survivors Tim Cain that Tim Cain Ron Paul and Ron Johnson were the three US
senators who are in the early Covid survivors dot-com list because they
all had Covid and survived the ordeal within the first three months of 2020 my
cutoff is March at the end of March it's like well now the narratives it's
spreading it's not as incredible but the people that are on that list is quite
well and with Rand Paul I can just interject because I was looking back at
the sequence of events with him in in March you know he's asymptomatic gets
tested because some other people at an event in Kentucky tested positive he's
not sick but then he's doing the right thing and quarantining you know issues
a statement and then oh he doesn't have to show up to vote on the cares act huh
that's a good point is that weird to you I mean you don't have to be a so-called
conspiracy theorist and I hate that term I like to just say theorist right or
collusion theorist is I think Nick Hudson's term for it but can we just go back
and say that that's ridiculous and now this is the guy who's been on a never
ending circular crusade and parade of hearings with Anthony Fauci around
gain a function lab league right like that's all that's definitely staged for
sure it is so yeah let's it's it's past time to call this out so that like
Jonathan Kui says I mean this is really for our children right I don't want my
children believing lives right my poor children are you know
inculcated with with this stuff a lot for me although even my children look at
the New York City graph and say yeah I don't think that happened I don't think
that happened that way right so some of these visuals I'll end up posting on
my substack woodhouse76.com you know when you're looking at death data all the
time sometimes you make death jokes so it's maybe a little bit inappropriate but
I decided to title this this set of visuals stay home save lives slow the
spread look they're dead because New York City had an incredible number of home
deaths death set at at people's homes hospitals still had the most by quite
a margin nursing homes had quite a bit but the home death toll is one that
doesn't get talked about enough in in my opinion and just for review by way of
review this is what the daily death curve for New York City looks like 2019 through
2020 I actually now have all the way back to 1999 daily deaths I need to put
that out soon it's really interesting to see that but as I pointed out many
times we don't see anything going on absolutely nothing until the feds say
15 days to slow the spread and then we see an incredible I think almost 750
percent something like that from base to peak increase in daily deaths and then
almost as incredibly maybe even more incredibly we see a drop to baseline
little bit below baseline and it stays that way really for the rest of the
year starts to creep up again a little bit at the end of 2020 but it's not
really any that that's not really notable compared to previous years or
previous flu flu seasons when it's a date that it started to this precipitous drop
it's somewhere in the middle of the month what's the approximate date and you
know it's interesting to look at this data by place of death which I'll show
you in a second but yeah I mean it goes back down to baseline so somebody
pointed this out to me today that it goes back down to baseline a couple days
before George Floyd happened I was like oh I never noticed that before so it's
something like by by the very end of May you know we're we're very much back to
normal when it comes to all caused deaths happening each day you know
regardless of place so it's it's just incredible I don't have this slide
available right now but I mean you look at New York compared to Chicago and
Chicago experienced a hundred percent or so increase in in deaths during this
time but their event started a little later than New York City's even though
they announced a COVID case about six weeks before I'm also be interested in
you know New York Elizabeth 10 Yonkers you know the surrounding towns if you
cross the street and no one's dying anymore well the Metro a lot of people
commute into New York City by the way I mean everyone knows this of course yeah
I mean the met the Metro area really accounts for all of America I mean
pretty pretty much like the the spring 2020 event you know it it happened
basically in the New York City Metro area and then a few other places right
when it comes to that Seattle funny enough King County Sohamish County
didn't experience very much excess in this period at all because they did the
right thing right they did the right thing but New York was attacked right
the most disaster prepared city in the world was attacked it was caught off
guard this is the narrative right it was caught off guard by a cold virus but it
fought back and showed everybody how it was done I mean that that's the kind of
Hollywood storyline that they were telling and are still telling about this
this event what's even more incredible to me in some ways is if you separate the
COVID deaths the deaths that were attributed to COVID-19 as underlying
cause versus the deaths that were not again you see something that looks like
a bomb but you also see that so there was non-COVID access of course that we
already knew that so even with the liberal interpretation of what a COVID death is
assuming anyone with the respiratory virus or something similar to the flu is
COVID I don't know how much of that was put into place please elaborate even
with that there was still more death overall not just like a couple but a
few thousand which were not COVID even when interpreting the cause of death
in a very forgiving liberal way yeah sure about seven thousand or so
non non-COVID deaths in this time New York's definition at this time was
60 days within 60 days of the death there was a positive COVID test now
what the narrative is on that though is that in the non-COVID people tell you
that well there's so many deaths that we missed right we didn't have enough
tests even though New York City was doing more tests than anyone the bulk of
testing being done in the first three weeks of this event in New York City was
the bulk of the test being done in America so and New York had its own test
New York State Wadsworth lab they they had their own test going
here they had a said they had a 70% positivity rate
that's maybe off topic for now but just just keep just keep that in mind
but yes you're right I would never say that New York City didn't have excess
death what I question is the representation of this event did this
event happen as presented and I say no I'm calling BS on it if you will
the non-COVID excess also goes away when we're only looking at all
causing that other slide there's other slices of the data you can look at like
home deaths stay elevated for the rest of the year
certain kinds of deaths stay elevated right but it makes no sense
that after this 11 week period less than that for non-COVID deaths
you know we're just back to normal situation normal
back here in in New York City even though there's still mitigations going on
we've got 8.5 million people in the city I get that some people left right the
the best estimate I've read is 450,000 Manhattanites left
for the Hamptons or upstate or what what have you but it's just ridiculous
no lingering illness if you were unfortunate enough to catch the novel
respiratory virus as it's spreading around either you died in that month or
everyone got better which makes you think well
why did they ever need a jab if everyone everyone survived exposure
who had it at a certain period of time well not only that so this what's funny
what I've realized over time is that this also fed the herd immunity argument
see it all feeds the novel virus there was a novel virus that was spreading
suddenly from perfect person this if you hear J about a chariot or maybe even
Michael Levitt or some other some other people talk about New York to the
extent that they will talk about New York these days
their idea is that it was maybe a different variant or it spread really
quickly in New York City and it burned through right
so you can see how New York City served the government narrative
in so many different way right but it's incredible to look look back on
as we try to get into home deaths here I just want to show
the viewers and you know remind remind us that one of the
many red flags about this event is that we had basically all places of death
all settings of death rise at the same time
or let me speak for myself that is not what I would expect if there was a
novel deadly virus silently spreading on the loose
you would expect to maybe start to see certain places of death rise first and
we could debate what those might be you know depending on the situation or
what we would assume about such a pathogen right but instead we see this
15 days to slow the spread isn't that incredible
so hospital inpatient it well for me that's the most fraudulent
right it's either fraudulent or it says we we euthanized everybody who was
already in the hospital which color is actually hard to tell the color from
the top line is hospital inpatient home and nursing home are roughly the same
percent increase ish okay and then although this isn't percent this is
raw but I know the percentages too okay so they're comparable
emergency department outpatient that excess lasts only about six weeks
if that and it goes back down I combined in this data
DOA which means dead on arrival to the hospital so ambulance picks you up and
brings you to the health care setting but you you died on route
hospice facility and other places because there are some suppressed values when
you're looking at daily in the daily data set that I was provided
it's super sus by the way super sus that DOA and hospice facility don't go up
that's weird do you know mark that according to the New York City vital
statistics report of 2020 there were only 15 covid deaths in New York City
hospice facilities that's incredible don't you think
that's incredible there was something like 16 000
in hospital and outpatient I'm so glad that New York City kept
covid out of its hospice facilities but let it into the nursing home
facilities I think that's I think that's really weird
if someone in hospice is is if they're health is slowly deteriorating
and if they are given medications to slowly put them at rest
would the death code be something not covid if they
already did have if they did have covid or so that's so that's well I don't
know what we mean by have covid but they have covid but you know they're in
the process of dying anyway so you know you're in your final weekend
you know it's bad enough and then you have to go out with covid
um so well maybe in a hospice facility were hospice facilities weren't paid
extra money for covid deaths were they not not to my knowledge i'm not
facility patients could also like nursing home residents
be moved into hospitals transported into hospitals
to help staging efforts if you were running a live exercise simulation
involving so if someone's dying in hospice care
um they perhaps you yesterday they may be gone in two or three days
there's no extra money but if they happen to pass away in the hospital down the
street there's i don't know an extra twenty thousand dollars
and another potential explanation is an executive order that Andrew Cuomo
issued on march 23rd there's many things that are interesting in that order but
they allowed hospice facility to have dual certification as inpatient
vets so does the hospital inpatient toll include
some hospice facility people it's interesting to think about
but you know what we're really interested in today
is the home death toll no sign of anything
going on until president trump says 15 days to slow the spread and then
boom it's almost vertical in the first week
yes so he said that on march 16th 2020 15 days to slow the spread i think it
march about 31 day month so the number of deaths occurring at
home started the day after that or two days after that or i mean
yeah basically this is this is cdc data which is weekly
not the other step i was showing you is daily but yes it's it's more or less
right after that you know i think the 18th or 19th i don't have the dates right
in front of me but there's nothing going on but before then
what's really interesting too i'll show this one first and then i'll go back
cdc data and the and the new york state new york city data
more or less in agreement no no no no okay they're not i can post
something about that on sub stack maybe um we'll get at that later but
there's differences yeah there's difference there they're not the kind
of differences though that would account for huge
bulks of deaths the cdc data for for deaths at
deaths at its home when you look by age group
shows increases again simultaneous increases across all adult age groups
now with the younger groups you're gonna be like well that's not very much but
it actually is quite a bit a table might be better to to look at if you're
looking at weeks 12 so this is mid march you know march 15th or so
until um may 30th in this data set i mean we see
175 to you know over 200 increase in deaths at home at
every age group every age group for adults
that is astounding now obviously raw number is highest
at the older age levels but you've more than doubled your
your deaths for ages 25 to 44 what well you're it's almost
yeah it's almost doubled well it's almost it's almost a factor of three
almost yeah yeah it's absolutely ridiculous and so
overall we see that we have this tremendous
increase in deaths at home so what the flip was going on
is this DOA or is this also include they were unresponsive and then they
brought to the hospital in dead or they were
pronounced they're announced as dead at home
great great question so yes that that at home so DOA in the in the data i was
showing you here it was like on the death certificate where the
person died so DOA in this data is the person was
brought to the hospital or transported somewhere and they were dead on arrival
so they were alive or considered alive when they were put into the ambulance
but then they were dead when they got there
that that's what DOA in this data set is when we're talking about deaths at home
in general it would be many people who were pronounced
dead on the scene does that make sense so dead on
dead on or either dead on arrival like i show up in the person's dead
right if i'm an EMT or i show up
the person doesn't have a pulse or we try to revive the person
and they die i was curious how many it looks like there might have been a
little bump but if there was you know suddenly
several thousand people dying from pickup to drop off
which i don't think there is but that that along with everything else would
be pretty suspicious remember that you said that though
we'll we'll get back to that because that is suspicious
the lack of real rise in DOA in this data set
is sus so let's go back to cause for just a second
this graph is also from cdc wonder and what i did here is i took
some of the big categories the bigger categories
so not specific things within each category but the bigger the bigger
categories so like neoplasm is cancer right and then there's all kinds of
cancers that are within that but the big categories
and the categories where there was a fairly significant
increase during this time so remember this is only deaths at home
we see a massive rise in heart-related deaths
absolutely massive and it's immediate it's right away
then we also see something that is ridiculous to me and has always been
ridiculous to me the idea that people are dying
suddenly of covid-19 at home
what's interesting about this view of the data is that we can see
that the covid death curve and the heart death curve
are the same shape very similar profile so based for a lot of reasons that i
won't get into right now but for a lot of reasons
i believe that that blue line is deaths at home for which
a positive test was secured so that could include heart deaths
it could include Alzheimer's deaths it could cut across categories
but those were the deaths for which there was a record of positive test
or they were the body was swabbed and they got a positive test
what's interesting is if you go back and you read
contemporaneous news reports at the time
and remember news was controlled at this time
so the idea that anything that was being said
was not what the government wanted us to hear think
is ridiculous so at this time there were announcements from officials
about we're not autopsying you know the normal number of
home deaths we're not able there's not enough tests
for us to test all these bodies so there was this shortage idea
right and this idea of we're missing deaths at home
we're missing covid deaths at home the virus is killing people
at home that that was in print or that was said
oh sure yeah and in fact New York City added
on April 14th they dumped something like 3,000 3,500
probable covid deaths into the covid death toll
I have some theories about that that we might get to later
if you look at this heart death curve for Chicago
for Cook County it doesn't even come close
it does not even come close there's a rise in heart related deaths at home
in Chicago as well Cook County as well but it's nothing
compared to this so on the basis of that alone
we have to ask ourselves what the flip happened in New York City
are we to think that New Yorkers are simply more panicked
than everybody else but here's something else really astounding
too related to this before we look at the ambulance data
is that if you look in CDC wonder at deaths at home
that attributed covid-19 as underlying cause
New York City versus everybody in April 2020
40 percent of such deaths are in New York
how is that possible New York City only comprises
not even 3% of the US population 2.7% I believe
how is it possible that they have well a covid death at home I have questions
about anyway right but 40% of those are there
it could be 5% with including the US that New York City Metro
either way this is only the five boroughs by the way
oh no this is anytime I show you New York City
in a data set thank you so it's even more absurd
that is yep it's even more absurd it's very hard to
just hard to explain very hard to explain that it's it's it's
absurd so when we look at the 911 call an ambulance data which
the EMT dispatch set is very very complicated it's huge and I've
had a couple people help me with it it's even hard just to down to
download it's very counter counter narrative and so
just to summarize the things about it that are pretty pretty counter
narrative and then I'll show I'll show each one
in contrast to what the government would have us believe and and what many
people believe some things that I used to believe
people called 911 you'll see that there's a big rise in
ambulance dispatches it's not it doesn't match the
that proportional to the death spike but it's there's a big there's a big
rise there were some changes though in the
types of calls that people made some of which I find really alarming
lots of medical help was dispatched so big increase and so the people who
say if anybody's listening like I was in New York I heard the sirens I
agree there were more sirens there were more responses okay yeah I agree
with you there was there were more dispatches that's what the data set
shows but ambulances transporting patients at
first they they stay kind of normal and then they drop
after I think March 25th when the CARES Act was passed
there is a massive rise in refused medical help
tons of patients were pronounced dead at the scene
and most of those especially in the first few weeks
were cardiac cardiac related or cardiac arrest
there was a series of orders and decisions made with respect to
emergency medical services that can explain some of the data that we see
but they don't explain why people were in cardiac arrest
why the calls were being made good point
so let's look at some of this data so that you know I don't just make statements
without without evidence okay here's a good question um
these are evidence that there were more calls for cardiac
arrest assistance at home before I should say in this month than before
okay I'll get to that I'll get to that so the the first data set just to look
at is so this is ambulances dispatched in response to 911 calls
I have the full data set like back to 2005 and then going forward but I'm
just going to show this for now I'm just going to show these periods of
September 1st 2019 so there's a sense of baseline
and until September 1st 2020 so nothing is going on there's nothing
really abnormal or notable until 15 days to slow the spread is called
and then pretty immediately we see this huge jump
in ambulance dispatches so when people say well
you know the reason that emergency department visits were down and it's
true emergency department visits were down we'll look at that but
well it's because people were staying away from the hospital they were
afraid to go to the hospital well if they were afraid to go to the hospital
then why don't we see the increase in calls
does that make sense I mean just that if you make me feel bad that I that
that this has been said and I have even questioned it but yes they're
making a phone call I need help bring me to a place where I can get help
right right and it I mean you go back and you look at my tweets
any anybody can go back and look at my tweets I mean in 2020 I think I was
saying like stay home save lives was the deadliest health public health
message in history people stayed home they were afraid
but you know that's what the news media was reporting at the time too
like it during the event so I now realize that
oh this is interesting this was like an intended this explanation
is one of the explanations for what was going on
and it's what the government wanted us to think
so I'm not really sure that that's really what what happened here
I don't know how to best describe this but have you talked to any responders
or any any people that would have information on
how often the calls were made by the person who was in need versus
a family member of roommate or something like that
no that's a good question so I have I'll say this for now I have
interacted with a couple of EMTs including somebody who was working in
the call center I've shown some of these data
to those people the response from one that I got was that the data looks weird
the person did not elaborate and I haven't talked to that person in a little
while after I sent them more data but I'm not quoting directly but it was
something like that like the data looks a little funny
almost like they weren't expecting what I showed
no further comment I don't know what else to say about that
what's the characteristic that's weird again without me not say
they the person didn't say it's interesting to compare this though with
Chicago now this isn't exactly the same data
so this is ambulances dispatched in response to 911 calls
this is Chicago daily calls to EMS so okay so it's a little different
but you know if we assume that the ambulance dispatches are more or less
in line with the the the e m the calls to 911
Chicago actually saw a drop no not huge but Chicago saw a little bit of a dip
in 911 calls so when we put these two cities on the same
different vertical axes same graph right what what is the explanation
everything else aside for a second what is the explanation for
New York goes up Chicago doesn't now I used to think it was maybe a
temperament thing you know and I know I know New York
New York City my husband's there today in fact I know New York City
no Chicago obviously there are temperamental differences
between the residents of each city right Chicago's there's there's more apathy
I would say in in Chicago or New York stereotypically
is more prone to intensity but I don't see
again stereotypically not every New Yorker but I don't see why
Donald Trump saying 15 days to slow the spread would trigger the calls
in one place but not not the other well I mean that time I don't know if it was
a statement that caused it that's a good point in time
though it's an interesting point in time and it raises
questions for me I've long had questions about
and theorize this 15 days to slow the spread means something else
did it activate something did it activate
a response plan is it a euphemism I don't know the answer this
is the data really I mean that's what it was Trump the first person to say that
was that really his statement or did he reiterate
I'm not trying to let the guy out the hook trust me
reiterate was something that someone else said
no it's it's a formal declaration it's it's a document I've I've tweeted it many
times it's a formal federal document and it says 15 days to slow the
the spread like an executive order of sorts yeah I don't know if it
Kevin Watt would be good to ask about this actually the
I don't know that it carried the weight of an executive
order it was more of a prop the way I understand it
not a lawyer is just more of a proclamation
so did he know what he was saying
I don't know I try not to get into the mind of a you know reality show president
but you're fired I think that's interesting I think it's
interesting because I've done so many different timelines Mark
words like okay what did Cuomo say here what do you say there
and what I realized is that the pivot point is the announcement of 15 days to
slow the spread that's when the data changes
the other thing too I just want to point out in case someone's like why
didn't she comment on that you know the the dispatches go down
way below baseline and they stay that way they actually stay that way for a
while part of the reason for that we think
is because as of April 1st they started directing more calls to telehealth to
telemedicine I don't know though about the idea
that there are so many ambulances normally that are
dispatched you know that effectively don't need to be
dispatched and could be handled by telemedicine
right and we do see home deaths do stay elevated
for the rest of the year not super high but they're elevated
so it is interesting to me still though that in a city of 8 million people
that dispatches drop and stay stay down but again that might be explained by
by telehealth if we look at the call it's actually
supposed to be the same data set I've emailed the author of this study
who's the chief medical officer of the fire department of New York and
asked him for underlying data in this study and he says
he he's basically said no which is weird but this is
this is aggregated data from then that they report
it's my it's my table I selected certain things people can go and look at
the whole whole study I'm not trying to hide anything I'm just highlighting
certain things but if we look at the calls in the
call types we see some pretty big increases in
some kinds of calls and then decreases in other kinds
general illness calls goes up respiratory goes up so I think that those are
maybe some of the ones we're supposed to look at
right like look people are panicking look
there's a virus okay and I do think by the way that there were some
there was probably some intense panic calling
yeah I do think that is in the in the mix I would never say that it wasn't
like okay I got a call I mean people's doctor's offices were closed
or words people just yeah freaking out seeing the numbers on TV I think that
that was happening so I don't want to minimize that
at all but if you look at two things in particular
they're alarming to me so it's very alarming to me
that cardiac arrest goes up so high
very high what was causing the cardiac arrests
then it's also very interesting to me an alarming but for different reasons
that psychiatric and drug calls go down
I mean it's not the same but it's close enough to where
I see the increase in cardiac arrest calls
and the decrease in opioid you know or psych drug calls and I'm like huh
is it possible that some cardiac arrests were drug triggered
if someone has an opioid overdose their heart isn't working
well precisely I also find it interesting that blunt trauma goes down
I don't know if this this is at home so this wouldn't count for traffic
accidents work injuries I guess that wouldn't be there
it's it is odd the more I think about it now yeah
it's down from 21 190 down to 14,550
my thinking is so I'm surprised and yet can explain it like okay how would you
explain it well there's so okay there's more people being
attended to right because more people are at home so if you figure
let's just say you live with you know the parent that you're taking care of
or something like that right or your kids right the kids the kids are at home
I don't know maybe just people being at home more prevents
some of those accidents that normally happen
maybe a lot of blunt actually here's something a little darker that I
didn't think of before but maybe a lot of blunt trauma is people
in nursing homes I'd be curious about that
so some of these residents could be in nursing
maybe there's a dry tinder effect so maybe there's a dry tinder effect
if people are dead that's possible people are more prone to
falling if they are you know in an advanced age or their
health is uh yeah yeah that that is a that is a
trigger so I find that I find that interesting
um but it's really the cardiac arrest and drug calls that catch my
attention the most even though in this study
there you know your attention is maybe supposed to be on the volume
that increase and my colleague Tom is redime pointed out to me
that this was a really good insight he said you know
this is a significant increase and much was made in the media about how many
calls most calls they've ever had right the 911 system was overwhelmed
more than 911 all of that but it's not that big of a jump
I think it's something like 20 the numbers are like 25 to 30 percent
overall jump I mean if you're going from 4 000 to 6 000
that's a 50 percent yeah that's true that's true but
it's not worthy sure yeah it's it's no it's noteworthy
it doesn't match necessary it doesn't explain
the massive mortality rise when you're looking at the percent
increase in more in deaths overall at all places
do you go back to the previous chart of numbers
sure yep this one yep this isn't all calls this is
this is bigger some bigger category there's other category too
um so respiratory is of course up 15 percent
that would correlate with a novel respiratory pathogen spreading around
call more than 15 percent excuse me 15 000 right because this is deep
right yeah 15 000 up 162 percent the cardiac arrest
is up a higher percentage but the total number increases
well 4400 right which is what what was causing it well
we were told that in in China some people were just dropping dead of COVID
sure i don't know if they were if their heart just stopped working because
they were overwhelmed with the the SARS-CoV-2 virus
uh but that increase of 4400 is well it's not quite as much as the
decrease in 6300 and and uh drug use or drug overdose is
accidental well remember too this is just the calls it's not the
disposition right these aren't all dead people
these are these are just the calls that were were made or how the calls were
okay so these are the calls so this is not the
disposition of the people who visit the home
in response to the call this is not the assessment of the emergency response
team this is the call itself is saying so
no someone who made some people may speculate the call was you know uh
i don't know i fell down the stairs and then but here it's showing up as a
heart issue well good okay so good good question
if my memory serves me in this particular study they actually don't
say that the master data set the EMS incident data set
does have fault so it has initial call final call
right how it was classified initially and then how it was
classified by EMS and then there's the dispatch code basically
what happened with the patient right so those are different things
if my memory serves me in this study it's not
clear who if it's initial call or final
call hope right like whose code we're looking at
here is not clear and again i tried to get some of the data
from the authors and they said no even though it's a publicly funded study
even though the lead author is the chief medical officer of the fire
department of new york he didn't say no exactly he said uh
not at this time or so so i'm even more cryptic
not i cannot i mean like something somebody would say to a senator if
they were being you know soon we're gonna get right on it
yeah exactly so let's look at some of these other dispatch
batch codes because they give us some some insights
these are ambulances transporting patient from point of pickup to somewhere
else now we assume that most of these would be to hospital but
not necessarily again we don't see anything much
going on then we see 15 days to slow the spread
is called transport stay relatively normal here
and then the cares act is passed i'm just gonna i'll make another arrow so
people can see the cares act is passed right here
and we see transports go down but not relative to the number of calls
right because calls are up here calls are up
and all dispatches i should say are up but we're transporting
fewer patients so if we look at all all on one graph
this is emergency department visits so now
necessarily people being admitted to the hospital with emergency department
visits dispatches all dispatches and dispatches
that are transporting patients transporting patient dispatches is that
blue this transporting patients okay this is emergency department visits
and then this is all ambulance dispatches so i have them all on the same
axis in in this one so dispatches go up just for these three dimensions right
we see emergency department visits go down
dispatches go up but dispatches transporting patients go down so this
dispatches transporting patients is not driving this rise
right does that make sense it's not going up because more people are being
taken to the hospital and in fact EMS was being told to
avoid bringing people to the hospital so they're sending out more
emergency responders to bring less people back
basically the other disturbing thing is in late march
and then specifically on april first people can look up this article if they
want to this is from an EMS news site and they can look up other related
articles but it was said at the time that you know there was flexibility
being afforded or CMS changed some different rules and protocols
because covid-19 emergency about where ambulances could take patients
you know i don't i don't know CMS rules like some of these medical things i'm
not i'm not an expert in other people could maybe look at them as well but
even more importantly um or just as weird is the the arp the american rescue
plan act that was passed in march 2021 it retroactively
reimbursed ambulance providers for all events related to a covid patient
even if the patient was not transporting a theory that my colleague my colleague
thomas and i have is that maybe ambulance companies
knew that like maybe they were given a heads up with some of these rules that
hey look i'm going to direct you not to bring people to the hospital
because the hospitals are over we we know EMS was told that in new york we
have i have the press releases you know hospitals are overwhelmed you know
please try to avoid you know spread please try to avoid bringing
people to the to the hospital but ambulances were reimbursed as though they
did i don't know what your thoughts are but i'm really i'm really disturbed by
that so you're so everybody has focused on these
incentives that the hospitals received but what i see are incentives for ambulances
simultaneous to a time when there was an incredible rise
in ducks at home something's not right about that
i mean from an ethics standpoint no matter what
then i also see in the data dispatch data what was driving
no pun intended what was driving the dispatch increase
it was refused medical aid refused to administrate or
refused to receive that's a good question
technically according to the i'll say the ambulance
guides that we've looked at if we look at a state level one in a city level
sort of protocol guide rma is the patient refusing medical aid of some kind
being brought to the hospital or maybe some other kind of medical aid
maybe put this mask on no i'm not doing that could that have been coded
refused medical aid we're going to administer this
medication via nebulizer no i don't want no i don't want that for my husband
is that refused medical aid there's many reports at the time
and these are reported in news media so again you have to kind of
take some of this with a grain of salt but of
ems you know saying that they hold people not to go to the hospital
or or people saying that ems told them not to go to the hospital
so we 15 days to slow the spread is called
and this this is a dramatic rise
wow so approximately five looks like around five hundred and ten
a week before refused medical aid when at home
at point of pickup at point of pickup
so that's because it could be a homeless shelter
it could be a police station so all of those things could be in the mix so
it's not just the person's you know apartment on the upper east side
right so or whatever bungalow and that went from very rapidly
over the course of looks like three weeks about five hundred a week five
hundred fifty a week to two thousand two hundred a week
for a few couple weeks for a few weeks
yeah i mean here here's i put them on different actions trying to think of
the scenarios where that would make sense
so you know that there were a lot of basic calls for just general illness
right big increase in that for respiratory maybe people you know
panicking right so one interpretation here
is that a good number and i think we have the specific data to suggest
this i'd have to go back in and look at the numbers again i get
i get kind of a migraine every time i look at this specific data because the
files are so big but there is an argument to be made for
there was a portion of these rma's that were worried well
right the ambulance shows up hey you don't really need to go to the hospital
the hospital is overwhelmed which that was alive first of all right but maybe
they were but maybe there was no reason for the person to go to the hospital
and they were coached away from it i don't know why
ambulances would have been sent out for somebody who's like i think i have
covid and i have a little bit of a fever why are we sending out
ambulances in that time when there's an emergency there's an emergency
situation i don't know why you would do that unless you were trying to just
test your system's capacity or something like that and if you have
if you know you have covid or you have some other respiratory illness you
should know when you call 911 if they can't take care of you
on the spot you're going to go to a hospital so absolutely the expectation
on both ends is that you will have to be brought to the hospital
and if in normal times you only reverse or you only get certain reimbursements
if you bring people to the hospital then i can understand the incentive on the
ambulance side of it right although in this place the reverse was
happening but they ended up being reimbursed
anyway but that the problem is when you see also a very big rise percentage
wise in the number of people who are dead at home
well now we start to have some questions and also we do have the
severity codes i don't have the data in front of me
but we do have the severity codes for these RMA's and there's a good
portion or not an insignificant portion that where severity code calls one or
two which are the most severe so why is medical aid
being refused in calls that were coded as
very severe exactly if it was mild using if it was mild you can say
i'll take my chances at home maybe even though you already called
a emergency response with this general agreement that if you can't be cared
for at home you're going to the hospital and if you
are really sick you feel like you're going to die
well the hospitals maybe they're crowded maybe they have a bunch of people with
the the deadly novel disease but you take your chances
because you're going to die anyway so well let's just let's just go to the
hospital and maybe things would be better and that's
not and again that's not a case of saying no
also note that you can see this better if i had the rest of the data set on here
but rma stays elevated why why people so people are continuing to call
911 at elevated levels and receive or and refuse medical aid for those listening
who are this is audio only after it looks like
march the refused medical aid rma remains elevated from
it looks like it's around the 700 per week
whereas previously it was about 520 a week so at 20 30 percent steady
elevation is pretty significant but that's a great question
in in my opinion this just me speaking for me
i think refused medical aid took on quite the double entendre
in this time who was refusing medical aid
we need some EMTs to start talking even if it's just on background to
journalists or people that they they trust when we look at some of these
variables all at once i i love these kind of
views i know they're distorting for a lot of people but i'm a systems
thinker you know my dad was in restaurants my
husband's in restaurants i used to work in a restaurant so i'm i'm used to
thinking about multiple things going on at one time i worked in schools too
right so i this systematic view is is uh right at my alley especially with
the timeline at the bottom but this is a macabre
i think that's the right word macabre picture
the federal government says 15 days the slow that spread
emergency department visits go down
hospital deaths go up first of all that's not on this that's not on this
graph but they skyrocket okay people are calling for help
help is being dispatched fewer people are being transported
more medical aid is being refused and more people are dead
i am i again you don't have to be or consider yourself a so-called
conspiracy theorist to say this warrants explanation and right now
the official explanation as far as i've been able to tell
is covid which i think has an an alternate meaning but
covid and people staying awake people being afraid to go to the hospital
i think these didn't contradict that again um i showed the numbers before
uh we uh they uh there's a a perception that the uh elevated
that these tens of thousands of extra deaths
people dying of covid are being given new types of medication
that a high percentage of them are in hospital they're in a bed somewhere
they're on event and so on i still am biased to think that
most of the people who were claimed to have died of covid in New York City
went on event what was the number what was the percentage that
did not according to these records according to this data
die on a ventilator or die in a hospital setting
none of none of these were you mean the pronounced dead
none of them would have died out of ventilator what was that number again
what was like the number of excess deaths not hospital
uh you mean the increase where did i have it's about five five
the the increase i think is five thousand six thousand does that sound about
right uh yeah i'll buy that so out of the overall
increase of twenty five thousand here's the age group so i don't i don't have
the youngest age groups on here but there's not
they don't form the bulk of increases anyway in this period so
five thousand almost six almost six thousand
so if someone is is thinking that um you know the
twenty five thousand excess deaths approximately in a month
that most of those people were in a bed on event in a hospital
that's not true uh six thousand approximately
it increased number of deaths were not at a hospital
they're at a point of where the person made the call at home
again police station part outside etc shelter and so on
and actually if you want to look at on a graph
if you want to see these are two different data sources
but black is patient pronounced dead at point of pickup
and then red are deaths at home now in the baseline in normal times
if we consider this period normal deaths at home are more than
patient pronounced dead
it's weird that these things rise simultaneously i don't know maybe
it's not i don't know i have a lot of questions about this
but we see a reversal for a time for about six weeks we see a
reversal where patient pronounced dead exceeds deaths at home
how do we explain that well i don't know that this is simple but
because when you're being picked up somewhere or when 911 is called in the
ambulance it comes against you it's not always at your home
or the you know the dwelling classified as your home
we can infer that a lot of these patients pronounced dead were
dead somewhere other than a place that was classified
than their home but they're supposed to be home
that's weird this is the slow the spread time you're supposed to be home
maybe this means that there were ambulances called to nursing homes
because in this data said nursing home at least a skilled nursing home should
be in a different in a different place of death
well perhaps a nursing home versus an elderly
residence yeah there's some there's some
yeah nursing home and long-term care facility
is a distinct category in place of death in both the city data and cdc
wonder then decidence home okay but they don't but they don't have
exactly the same definition and there's some will go room
i know i you know whose voices in my mind right now is
Andrew Cuomo's um one of the things that he said
you i read all the things i read all the things
but you have to you have you have to you have to you have to read this stuff
you know it's propaganda right yeah but i encourage people all the time
you you read wikipedia you read the propaganda
you will find inconsistencies and it's always interesting as to when
their statement was one thing on one day and then it changes on another day
put it on a map yes you have to go through it that way
remember when he said who cares where people died
they died he's yelling at a a media person i don't remember that but i could
but i could see i could see him saying that
the great clip and that was in 2021 when he i think when he was being accused
of you know covering up you know nursing home deaths which well we'll have to
talk about that sometime that that whole thing is
a different kind of a or a ruse but this is still disturbing like the
comparison here it's like well where were people dying
if not at places that were classified as their home
hotels is homeless shelter considered your home
is prison considered your home i mean right we could start to get
sort of dark here central park anybody like i find that interesting
but with the cardiac arrests you know we can look at
that dispatch data by call type so if when you look at pronounce dead
cardiac arrest nothing is going on leading up to
the slow the spread decree sorry that it should be more right here
right i should move this over right and then we see this
we see this massive rise so what was triggering cardiac arrests
if i may i have a rec a document here this is a paper from
2022 substance abuse journal i presumably
drug overdoses leading cause of injury related to the united states we know
that it has been linked predominantly to respiratory depression
and cardiac toxicity both of which can lead to
cardiac arrest so uh you know respiratory issues
your heart is working well the week um respiratory
minus asthma is up 162 percent cardiopulmonary arrest as you shown
is other cardiac also up 223 percent it's like
drug down and drug overdoses were uh oddly down
or not not up much drug overdose deaths in this period not up much
yeah it's it's not it's not what people would
assume i think i already showed that we're showing here um this is the call
type you're showing that for the call type again these aren't deaths necessary
but the call type for drug overdoses was down
well here's deaths so i don't have drug overdoses broken out here
accidental or otherwise i can i can do that and send it to you
but i do have just external causes right so external causes
i'm sorry this is hard to see but external causes is the green line
and that's where drug would be or is that's the category that drug is in
so there there is you know if we only had drug in here or external you see that
there is a little bit of a rise it actually doesn't come into later
though until later may
so so this idea uh and and that does reflect the national trend too
right wasn't there also nationally may is really the month
when the overdoses went up the yeah it was may um i don't know national
of mayor june it started to say the death classified is overdose
i mean i did videos in 2021 or deer was just
uh oh no i know because i was about it too
well my son was in uh uh you know uh sober living facilities
and they were that the turnover was unprecedented
there were so many people dying it was off the charts
this document that i'm reviewing the association of cardiac arrest with
opioid overdose well actually it even it called intransport
um that wasn't a statement that these were
drug order's deaths okay that's that's a statement that
the symptoms that you're showing surging uh respiratory and cardiopulmonary
issues are the two things which most correspond
with an opioid overdose that that was uh now it something else could be
causing them deadly novel virus for example
it is what is it is a strong alignment and with the calls
that were stated to be related to drug overdoses down
it's again it doesn't match perfectly but
someone should be wanting to ask these questions
right if the interpretation of everything that happened in new york
city in nationally 2021 was that there was a
deadly novel virus that's going to kill you know two percent
twenty percent i don't know the population
and it's unstoppable unless we have a brand new type of medical intervention
introduced okay well that would mean that
how every injury everything that happens with respect to the medical
intervention is happening only because of
the assessment of these events so
if we want to address the potential risks
i'm not going to say they do or don't exist
people know what i actually think though of the interventions
why not just go straight to the underlying events
and and make sure that we have interpreted those
properly and there are armies of people that are
heavily funded touring the world talking about the risks of these
medical interventions that do not want the world to know about
Jessica they don't want to talk about new york city
one of those one of those people told me recently
that he didn't think that new york city hospitals needed to be investigated
if only on the basis of the young deaths that occurred there alone
so i don't you know i i can't tell him what to think
even though he says he was there and he saw young people dying
fathers taxi cab drivers truck drivers he said
he doesn't think they need to be that needs to be investigated
what i was going to ask you is because you know better than i do
you know unfortunately is what is the difference between a drug overdose
and a drug poisoning i mean ultimately an overdose is a poisoning
right chemically speaking you know how do you know if people overdose on a
drug or were poisoned by a drug a medication perhaps i should have more
detailed knowledge of uh you know death codes and stuff like that i
don't it's not an area that ever really this is the question i've been putting
out um if uh if a child were to say get into the
parents on lock medicine cabinet or drink some antifreeze
something like this you know uh that's that's a poisoning uh if you're
dealing with a an overdose it's a it is a poisoning now
there may be immediate responses to let's say the cardiac issue
although the way that these things are treated
should take into account the potential reason of the cardiac event if someone
is likely to have overdosed on let's say someone had fentanyl exposure
there are some interventions which have a
higher likelihood of you know reviving them if administered at a proper time
i mean it would it we would expect that during this
period that we would see an increase in autopsies and deaths that occur at
home right but you know instead that's actually not
what we see we see according to cdc wonder
you can look at deaths you know and and whether the three options are
autopsy yes autopsy no or autopsy unknown
so in this period for deaths at home specifically in new york city
not in chicago by the way but in new york city
we see a drop in autopsies conducted for deaths at home
and you know it was reported in the news at the time too that the that the
medical examiner was so overwhelmed actually the medical examiner's office
was so overwhelmed by the bodies and the deaths at home were so
overwhelming mark that the national guard was brought in
to remove bodies from homes well i heard i heard about the freezer
trucks bodies no no yeah that's freezer trucks yeah
how is uh a doctor paul kachel md um who were there we'll have to talk about
the trucks at different time i'm still waiting for uh
data back from fema about the trucks that they assisted the 85 d o d trucks that
they assisted reported leaves still waiting for the manifests
and the other data that i requested they've delayed that response a lot
they actually referred it to somebody from uh i guess somebody from deloitte
who works with fema is working on my request for that i think that's strange
let's talk about that another time but but why why is there a drop so
so the biggest home death event in new york city i mean in recent history
right i know there's been trends over time and you know whether people die at
the hospital or at home right so i'm not talking about the 1800s right
but certainly in the past 50 years biggest home death event ever
right far more than chicago and you know it's funny mark
in chicago the medical examiner you can see
every death that they that they process every single one
is public automatically has this always been the case in
new york city or was there a change made in the last
or is there a notable change in the way that the data is made available in
new york city i you know i don't know i don't think
death certificates necessarily have ever been um
obtainable via foya you can see a group called i think it's a group the group
reclaim the records has fought new york city on death certificates historical
ones and so there is you can get up to and i've looked through these actually
for in 1918 but you can you can get them through like 1949
or something like that but really there's no reason that that death records
death certificates in particular they're vital records and we elect an
appoint officials to steward these records they do
not have the right to privatize them i should be able to get and actually in
my county i can and i have in in Illinois i can get any i have to pay
but i can get any autopsy that i want actually my medical examiner lives down
the street yeah i mean i understand people have the
right to privacy i don't know why uh someone do not
a dead do not you're dead so i'm not talking about somebody's medical
record i understand i understand i'm just trying to think of
uh of i i don't know i mean there's always this is
perhaps there's an interpretation maybe someone
the the family doesn't want to know that there was a suicide committed
i could see maybe there are situations where people wouldn't want
uh said information to be out there but for the most
part especially because making that such data available could be
critical in identifying an incompetent doctor for example
or permit government malfeasance forms
government malfeasance well and it can you can have
exception right but the default should be
i mean so the cook county medical examiner the ones that are automatically
uploaded that i could see every every day the names are removed
but but i could still get every single one with the name on it if i want it i
would just have to pay the fee but in New York
it's all privatized so i mean i've said many times i don't mind saying this on
your your show either i i believe that New York City
was used to stage sudden spread of a dot
novel deadly respiratory pathogen and used to justify a pandemic declaration
and show people that a shot was needed okay this is exhibit exhibit A
in this so the government has made a claim about the number of people that
have died said that most of them died from from a coronavirus
and hasn't been forced to prove it in any way
including just a list of names and look they're not the medical examiner
did not perform the normal number of autopsies let alone a number of autopsies
that is commensurate with the event that that occurred and we have no explanation
for this this is a publicly funded office
where is a root cause analysis where is there report on what happened here
so that we can all learn from it so we're showing this black line here is uh
those are deaths at home those are the deaths at home
i'm sorry the purple i'm sorry the purple is that said phone these are treating
scales purple is deaths at home which goes up
dramatically during this month that no one wants to talk about
in New York City goes up dramatically and at the same time it perfectly
correlates with a 80 to 90 drop in home deaths which have been
autopsies if anything if it stayed at the same rate whatever that is
should have gone up or at least not well if it's at the same rate
it's the same rate it goes up if it's the same rate it goes up
maybe that maybe there's only one person that can do it in the whole city for
example and that person is already really working at capacity
right because they only plan for a certain number of deaths every week and
maybe it can't go up because there's a bottleneck okay i'll give you that
much but it actually goes down and the national guard was helping them
not and there's no i mean i'm obviously fired up by there's no excuse for this
no there's no excuse for people ignoring it
either i you know i get it i'm a nobody right what does she know but
this is this is pretty clear anybody can look at this this data
what explanation have people provided for this there's no resistance there's
what i would call dynamic silence right like who who said that whose
concept is that the dynamic silence so it's like we're going to
actively ignore this right we're not going to respond to it
either way that that's what i that's what i face
mostly now it doesn't mean again maybe people just aren't paying attention to
me people have moved on to other things people are people are in romania
right health freedom advocates are in romania
you know they're they're uh they're testified to ron johnson
they've got they've got bigger they've got better things to do what do they
care about new york who cares about new york
i'm just a historian here i'm i'm just uh i'm just a historian
so i don't know i i i think i think this i think rfk should be
interested in this and i don't care what rfk does i'm not
you know i'm probably voting libertarian by the way but
they should all be candidates but yeah everybody should be interested
in this right well i'm not down the trump he was
president during this time he's from new york
so is vouchy so is promo that's true media capital of the world where's
al experiencing
anyway speaking of the you know i've i've mentioned a few times the ems
orders i have a whole pdf file that goes along with this we composed it
people can look through it um i've gone back and forth on the
implications of these orders i think it's interesting
that on march first fdny took certified first responders
off of any calls that would be considered
coronavirus related like asthma fever cough so low grade
so it's interesting that at march first coronavirus was considered
low grade call not worthy of you know putting cfr
on on those march first was the day that the the first new york city case
was announced a woman health care worker who had come back from i ran
where 12 officials were killed by the coronavirus
and um they were refocused primarily to cardiac arrest calls
two weeks before 15 days to slow the spread was announced
10 days before the who declared a pandemic
i mean there might be some good explanations for that
maybe it was anticipated that there would be more cardiac arrest calls
or that there would be more panicked people calling
and we shouldn't we shouldn't take cfr off of cardiac arrest or we shouldn't
do anything that would you know deprioritize cardiac arrest
and then there's a series of different orders that are given and guidelines
that are given to emps about some relate to putting masks on
patients including patients in cardiac arrest way to ways to um
man airway management what to do and what not to do to prevent spread
um there was a temporary lowering of disaster staffing standards i can't
remember what the number is like reducing it from like three people to two or
two to one i can't remember what the ratio was off the top of my head right now
so we're uh putting you know more or fewer people in an ambulance
fewer emps fewer witnesses maybe it's the way that i'm starting to think of it
there were some cardiac arrest standards that were put into place that were
you know you read them and you read the press releases related to them and
you're like they were basically telling them to not do what they normally do
for cardiac arrest why were there so many cardiac arrests
at this time and why are you telling them not to do something
with those people there was what could be interpreted as or what i
interpret as basically a cardiac arrest dnr order
although the orders that preceded it i think could sort of be
interpreted that way as well but it's funny because when you
line up the timeline of the orders it doesn't
quite line up with the trajectory here
i have a question go go ahead uh during this time
and i know you don't have any uh quantifiable data on this
but has anyone shared a story uh or any type of anecdotal information
which would suggest that there were new first responder staffing or first
responder services introduced in New York City during this month
well so i believe it's april first
that um there were a bunch of ambulances that came in from out of state they
were female like like ambulances and first be right
from out of state what what's the military doing doing during this time
who is driving these ambulances i mean let let me
since you know i don't care i i told you before i like i like to speculate i
i've speculated to this to some of my my colleagues are all of these calls
real that's what i want to know are all of these calls
real are any of these calls simulated i think that's a reasonable question to
ask oh it would be very easy to simulate these
of course it would be and and we know the military descended on new york at
this time although it's funny if you read you know we
we've got the comfort coming in right i mean
were there i i said this before it's crazy to think about this but like
were their bodies already on the comfort did the comfort bring some bodies into
the city that that's nuts right that's nuts
but that that's that's the kind of thing that when you go back and you look
half the staff got off the comfort and we're staying in the city
i we why why did they stay on the boat i i inter because because of social
distancing that was that that was what the press
release has said so they so wait they had staff on the boat
it is a big boat they needed to go to a hotel so they had more distance
what so they needed to what go to a hotel so they can have more distance i
mean right but right we're going to take half of them off
so that we can accommodate social distancing
that's what that's what the u.s may they said in their in their media
release a doctor that i interviewed along with
martinneal and jonathan angler we posted his his story
we called him phro but we posted his story on
on sub stack um he saw he saw military in his hospital
in the covid icu awards has anyone picked up on any identifying
information emblems any anything that was unique about the uniform and you
can you don't have to share it with now well i mean
and so phro referred to them as naval health officers
if i'm not mistaken you have to i just go back and look at our sorry i can't
always keep all my details in my bed at head it was i
i s p r cori if he saw it could as you know p here cori was in new york city
of course uh arrived after ex post facto of the main event
april 27th 2020 he says death is real hospital in the lower east side of
manhattan i asked him if he saw military at his hospital he said no
i have no reason to disbelieve him by the way
so maybe the military was in some hospitals not others
we know there's national guard press releases about teams you know from the
national guard that were at almhurst hospital
i i don't know what the flip was going on um but you know it's it's all been
covered up in in in covid you know and i i have to
you know i have to ask what with these orders
why were these orders given i mean and why don't they line up with the data
has the data been moved around again i hate to say that but after looking at
this for so long i i don't have a lot of explanations
if we look at data this is going back to january 1st 2020
i mean if i i have an article from march 24th 2020 from the morgan city daily
review louisiana uh that says the pentagons defense
threat reduction agency dtra or ditra it was the coordinating mill it has been
coordinating military flights to pick up test swab kits and distribute to various
cities in the united states so yeah the military had a
role here uh i don't know about the other agencies
i know some of the research that darp has done
uh but this is the this evidence a very specific group
doing a very specific thing again it's a newspaper article
you have to take it for what it's worth but uh i don't see why anyone would just
you know some guy out louisiana would make a story like that that's very
specific well the the military as you know i think
some people forget but the military follows orders
right then they're not sitting there coming up with their own plans
so you know at the very least it it wasn't just one it looks at new york
national guard the the navy the army like we we have a new york is very
geographically you know geographically i mean if we look at new
city uh you know you you could have i mean imagine the
routes in to this city that the military could take i mean this is
yes it's ideal i know it's absolutely i i deal it's all aside from the Bronx it's
all on islands and and the Bronx is a peninsula
so i mean this is one of the easiest cities this port's all over the place
there's no other city quite like it in the united states
in many in many ways in many ways and so you know these orders i've talked about
them we'll we'll post them but you know they don't match the
trajectory exactly and so you have to wonder if the orders themselves were
cover for what was really going on and they don't answer the question of what
was motivating what was causing these cardiac arrests at home
or at point of pickup right we don't know that these are all at people's homes
you know we also see if i look at patient pronounced dead cardiac arrest so
that's a black line and then i look at transporting patient
cardiac or cardiac with breathing problems
okay we see a sudden surge it's slight right but we do see
with the transporting patient we do see that some cardiac people were
transporting right which i know my focus in this
show has been the home deaths but when i think about
those first two weeks or the last two weeks in march
where you know we have like we're overwhelmed we have kalene smith you
know talking to the new york times about how
there's not enough ventilators people are coming in from all over the place
even though ed visits were down you have to wonder if there was
you know initially some cardiac patients that were brought to the hospital
and then why that stops and what function that served
whose narrative that served what that helps to hide was going on
it's it's really disturbing i mean the last piece of data i've shown so much
data but the last thing i want to show you was actually a study that i
discovered not that long ago i maybe had read it a while ago but then you
come back to it very soon after the spring event
um a study was submitted i think it was submitted in jr.
july and then it was published in jama cardiology in october 2020
characteristics associated with out of hospital cardiac arrests and
resuscitations during the novel coronavirus disease
2019 pandemic in new york city i have a lot of questions about that title
but um and then we've got you know fdny and
various medical medical school people on this on this study
people can read the whole study if they want to but um i tend to try to focus
on the things in the study that are trying to that give me a sense of what
happened or what they're saying happened you know
separating the wheat from the chaff so to speak
this is my table of data that's in the study
but we see so they they too in this study reported that increase in
in arrest calls there's a slightly different time period
so the data doesn't match up exactly the numbers don't match up exactly
but look at this mark they in this study report
patient dead on arrival no resuscitation was given
because the patient was dead
look at that increase now that in the study they kind of focus on like well
it was the same you know similar proportions as normal
you know with people who did and didn't receive resuscitation but look at the
raw number why were there over 2 000 dead people
on arrival who received no resuscitation over the the year before
i don't get it i don't get it then look at this number of resuscitation
given could then terminate it in the field
question um have you have any evidence or any
information about response times were they up dramatically
okay great great question so when you look at response times in that other
study there's reason we tonda verdine actually did a great job
going through that being like well look you know the response times here like
there's more dispatches so you know it did
increase the response to the cardiac calls overall i think is what we
determined so you know couple of minutes or so
that could make a difference but in this study
they're focused just on cardiac arrest and there really isn't a difference
in the in the period i want to say it's like 30 30 seconds or something like
that it's it's negligible i don't know what an average
response is but let's say it goes from 30 minutes to
an hour and a half well it's way less than that it's way
but if it did then people who are are dealing with a
cardiac issue from either a drug overdose or some other stress
age could be one um i would see that uh the the
likelihood of being able to revive a person after that period time would be
much less that's one example a couple minutes
no no that doesn't impact things uh dramatically so that is a very very
big well look at how many people look at the increase even just the overall
raw increase and then the number of people who who
died it's like what is going going on here
and it's still in this study is blamed on
you know Covid health health care avoidance it just it doesn't
it doesn't work there is a little bit of data in this study on medications
given and i might have i might have emailed this to you
but there is i did notice that there is a decrease in that
opioid overdose drug given they report some numbers for that
in this study uh yeah in our case numbers
but it's they and they don't i'm like i want to see all the medications not
just the one they selected for this this study but i thought
i thought that was really interesting here's another finding from this
study and i can probably wrap up but during the Covid-19 period
which okay can we just pause there for a second
all right what does this mean they're talking about
like a six seven-week period they're calling it the Covid-19 period
that sounds like a drill to me but during the Covid-19 period out of hospital
cardiac arrest were 3.5 times more likely to
present in a systole and twice is likely to present
impulseless electrical activity than in ventricular rhythms
so i'm not a doctor but i looked up what this means actually Thomas drew my
attention to this and then i looked up what this means i was like
uh then i asked my i asked my sister's a doctor
i didn't show her the study i just said hey when i say
a systole what do you think of she's like well technically
you know everybody experiences a systole because you know you're dead
your heart stops i'm like i know but just as a kind
of cardiac arrest she's like lightning strike
i said what about drugs she's like oh yeah cocaine
so i think that's interesting i think that i think that's that's
interesting well uh you probably showed this data as well
um already but to review was there a similar surge in cardiac
events in hospitals okay so i i do because if covid is causing
heart failure why should it cause more heart failure at home than in the
hospital well so hospital inpatient for sure i can
break down the ed separately but hospital inpatient for sure
almost a hundred percent of the increase is blamed on covid
so i mean what what does you and i talked about this before but yeah but
i understand it's blamed on covid but uh in hospitals is there more
cardiovascular issues you're right well i don't i don't have that data
i don't i don't know where i would find it right how many i mean no because
they're being left at home right so heart deaths
just even within the the heart death chapter in hospitals
did not i'll go back and check well if someone dies of i'll increase with
blamed on covid i mean underlying cause anyway okay if
covid is causing the heart failure right um i guess it could cause it gradually
so you slowly get more sick you feel ill you get more winded more exhausted
right or you just die right it just you're you're going
along living your you know day is the day and the covid just
kills you you keel over you know fall into the water
now if that's the characteristic of covid right
if you are in the hospital and if it's the instant death from covid
it doesn't matter if someone is there holding your hand
you're just going to croak
or if it behaves the same way or if it's a gradual thing
right then why would people at home are slowly getting more and more sick
wait until they're dying of a heart attack before they call
they they were calling they they were calling they were calling but that means
that they were calling before they had the heart issue they're like i'm feeling
we're in a bystander when we did uh boy yeah
before i can't hold out my food this so there's there's inconsistencies here
right it should behave the same way at home as it does in a hospital
so it's almost like maybe there was only a diff maybe there was um
what they call a mutation of the virus that existed in homes
it didn't like the cross hospital you know boys and i say this jokingly
because i'm i'm actually mocking the lack of uh of inquisition out there
i'm uh you know does these narratives don't
make sense they are completely incongruent
i here here's my theory here's my current theory but i could change my mind
perhaps there was a strategic controlled
drug poisoning event imagine how easy that would be
oh it would be very easy and you can you can have very very convincing
repressed pills um all you need is a few locations to distribute uh i don't
know um uh you know anti-anxiety medicines zanax
uh you know with fentanyl installed all you two pharmacists
you could poison several thousand people very very easily it doesn't need to be
a lot and i've i've seen these pills i've seen the lethal pills well
unfortunately i've had i don't know personally these uh these kids but
i do know of two children in boston that died
teenagers not even drug addicts they call these one and done
you go to a party you know you're being a stupid teenager
hey uh so and so has some zanax pills oh i heard that makes you feel this way
and you know it's laced with the lethal level of fentanyl
this stuff is out there uh and oh by the way we did just have a drug epidemic
of five hundred thousand deaths in five years
five hundred thousand in five years a hundred thousand a year
average in the year two thousand was a little over twenty thousand
um which is the main contributor of the uh of the life expectancy drops
it started the life expectancy drop in 2019
uh and it's only gotten worse since then and if
and if that inquisition would lead to a different assessment of what happened
in new york city and completely undermine the uh the uh impetus
to roll out all of the mRNA vaccines why will nobody do it
why won't anyone even consider the possibility
if the fact if these these interventions are
causing so much harm and death why not spend a couple of days
at least rule it out see everything in new york there's
the on stage version of what's going on
actually there's the op and the counter op which are launched at the same time
ventilators is a great example we need ventilators we need ventilators
oh wait the ventilators they're shutting down the car factories to make ventilators
they were just rolling off the forward plant
ventilators right away was the counter op don't you remember
holly and smith was yelling about ventilators so was quomo
and then march 31st cam and kyle sidel puts a youtube video out that never
got taken down and he was venerated and promoted
by webnd and the new york times and his his i'm just sitting here in my
apartment the ventilators don't appear be able to
working oh you had this hospital garban
same up ventilators in my opinion work cover
for the drugs because what kills the fastest in a medical setting
not a ventilator it's an injection and maybe they injected people who were
already in the hospital and were on the precipice
i mean this is dark stuff but we don't have answers
nobody wants to talk about it why was cfr placed primarily on cardiac arrest
calls the same day the first covid case was announced
what does covid mean is it the name of an operation
it's poppin it's poppin it's poppin
exactly what do these things mean was there
uh i'll go with a poisoning event drugs very very easy to control i dare say
that some people some agencies have some experience
with this maybe from in in the so i've heard so it's been documented by
to trigger it and maybe that's the explanation for there were young people
showing up to the hospital not being not able to breathe
they were hypoxic were they injected were i mean the other possibilities were
homeless people picked up off the streets and injected with sedatives
to calm them down in the in the ambulance
i mean that this again very very dark
or maybe maybe all this maybe this is fabricated
maybe this is deaths pushed from here and pushed from here
into a maybe their models got away from them
and they actually use deaths to catch up with the model
so some of these things that i'm saying i i'm not representing the perspectives
of other people or colleagues or whatever people that i've
worked with this is you know things like that or
my speculations about what what could have been going on
are my own and in a lot of cases i keep getting more data back and looking
and you know i could be completely wrong
okay those sound like extreme theories they sound like extreme how could that
happen well millions of people are now being told
what really happened was right there's an overweight
virologist at the university north carolina
that wanted to make an extra few dollars on patents
so he decided to unleash again a function virus on the planet
while working with a researcher who was affectionate of bats
in china and killed 15 million people
i mean that's the current narrative and this guy is he's a really bad dude
very very careless that's the narrative right now
and that's all you need to know we will arrest him and uh it's done
you know by the way all cancer therapy and matter of fact all
immunizations going forward are now gene therapy oh by the way
just happens to be the one thing that the united states has more invested in
probably our entire space program was the hiv vaccine
and even even our space program was mostly studying cancers
and microbes on return craft and so on and so forth
so wow how convenient is that yes it sounds crazy
what is currently being promoted i might add is
is fantastically more obscene right but you know i i do want to say that
these things that i'm putting out there as ideas none of this was on my
radar none of it so even though these things may be
crazy and i may be wrong i can honestly say
that i've arrived at some of these possibilities as a result of close
and inductive study of data of contemporaneous reports of of different
things again that doesn't make me right but the silence
the silence so interesting i you know i consider myself
you know a historian basically of this event
we'll see how long this pursuit lasts but i'm horrified by it but i i
legitimately want to know what happened because this event was used
to scare everybody and to justify the need for for a shot
that was forced on millions of people millions of people
and was harmful you know moral injury if nothing else uh hundreds of millions
yes yes yes a shot a technology which has been in the
works for a long time
uh decades with trillions of dollars behind it
i'm so thankful that you're going through this data
and continuing to highlight it uh there's going to be the silent treatment
you're seeing that right now the ignoring
and you probably feel this right every day there's an attempt to
try to drown out the work you've done by just promoting more stuff out there
you know it's as if you have to just keep like patty could get to keep putting
your hand up on the top of the stack otherwise it very quickly
uh gets uh people will forget about it and i think that's the goal right now
to have more theories more stage controversy within the movement
i think it's i'm really trying to ignore all i'm really trying to do my best to
ignore a lot of that i don't know if you saw that the
statement last week um last week that we put out the the
panda the panda put out like just about you know the
the state of all things covid and kind of where the organ like a like a
position statement review review what the statement is
sure well and it's it's a statement basically on
what what does panda as an organization in in general
you know believe at this point in time about the nature of the events in the
covid era and so the statement jonathan angler was the
the lead architect and right around that many different people contributed to
it including myself it's you know subject to change right
in in light of new evidence but we um the statement asserts that
there's no pandemic here's why we say that we don't see
um evidence of something novel spreading here's what we mean by that
we don't think you know lab leak is really the right question
here's here's why here's our position on you know whether there was a novel
disease so you know several things it's not
too long of a document it's very well organized it's on panda.org or on the
panda uncut substack.com people could people can find it they can
comment it on it there um but i i like that i like
and you know there's some things that i you know would if i was writing a
statement well i couldn't write this statement myself but if i could
uh you know there's a few things maybe that i would
change but overall with my personal views but overall it largely represents
you know my current view on things too and that's awesome
we just need more of an inquiry stance here more humility more like can we
figure this out together because right now like
there the people who pulled this off really pulled this off
keep up the great work um anything i can do to to support our archive if you will
and thank you for being patient with me
yeah yeah and again let your last minute pitch to the audience how people
can find you support you etc yeah sure they can find me at
at wood underscore house 76 on twitter i refuse to call it x
it's twitter access twitter we all know it and then
um my substack is www.woodhouse76.com and there's a tab where i have all my
New York City inquiry um little articles there but a lot of
stuff is on on twitter too twitter is like my first draft
that i put some stuff on on substack that's how i that's how i see it so
love it yep great work appreciate it all right
so do it again we'll do it again bye-bye all right bye